and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't done so yet check out
my weekly email where I share actual
website and B2B marketing tips useful
podcasts free goodies resources and more
to kick off your week with a bag why not
give it a shot over at businessgrowth
dot email
so joining me today I've got James James
of marketing over at access one a warm
welcome to the show sir how are we doing
Sam I'm doing great thanks for having me
on no dramas man looking forward to
today's chat we are going to be
discussing exactly what a small B2B
marketing teams should focus on I feel
like this is going to be useful because
one we haven't done it before and I
think quite often in organizations just
marketing teams in general get neglected
it's quite often a struggle when it
comes to asking for Budget asking for
resources it's quite often one of those
Department comments that gets given the
the back hand or just gets forgotten
about it so uh I'd love to dive straight
in
and absolutely
um
I think being a small marketing team is
where it's at it's got pretty much the
most fun you know Gotta Wear a lot of
hats and
um be a little bit Scrappy with with
whatever resources you are are given or
allocated and uh
and a lot of times that's that's where
the fun and the magic happens
yeah yeah that's the way man I I often
think the same like when you're when
you're in a smaller team we'll talk
about this in a sec but you can get
things done faster and there's there's a
lot of pros and cons but anyway
maybe we should start with the
advantages like we talked about some
then what are some of the pros some of
the great things about having a small
marketing team and when we say small
marketing team and your team James what
are we talking we're talking one person
maybe two or three or
yep so we so right now currently it's
one two three there's four of us
um
and that's you know myself
um I have at access one so it's it's me
I have a Ops person her name is Prague
she's fantastic I hired her to
um basically run Salesforce and a
HubSpot and do a lot of that we have our
CMO Robert
um who has been with access one for for
a very long time
um and then we have a designer and
someone on sales enablement to better
help support uh sales
um
and things like that so there's four of
us we're pretty small but yeah we're
pretty kind of small and mighty team
um
and I think the biggest Advantage
honestly is is
exactly what you just sort of hinted at
is that speed
um yep
you know you're able to sort of I think
go from idea to execution uh very
quickly and I think you know sometimes
when you have a small marketing game too
you're given a little bit more leeway to
I think try and fail and and try a bunch
of different stuff
um
you know which is sometimes a lot more
fun than when you have
like when I was at Athena Health and
this was maybe five or six years ago our
marketing team was a hundred people I
don't know 80 people it was like a very
large marketing gym
and everybody sort of it was you know I
like to think of it as like the
marketing assembly line where everybody
had their like you know we had the email
person and the SEO person and the PPC
person and
you know very defined uh roles
and that's fine that can be great too
because you sort of know what it is that
you're focused on and you're programming
and things like that but sure
you know at the same time you're like I
gotta go to this person to do that and
you know you're just in a lot of means
to like get work done whereas
you know I feel like with our team it's
very small and you know over slack or
teams or whatever it is phone calls
um
you know it's like should we try should
we try Z like how quickly can we try
that and like
you know you're just throwing a bunch of
ideas at the wall and trying to execute
very quickly on on certain things so I
think that's pretty much the the primary
advantage is is honestly
um
me quickly and and sort of knowing that
you're responsible for a lot of
different pieces of the puzzle yeah yeah
it's almost to me sounds a bit like
being in a startup in the early days
like you can
when you're the founder or your first
few team members of a team like you can
really you need to move fast because
quite often if especially if you're like
a bootstrap company I've got limited
funding you need to you need to do
things that are going to move the needle
that are going to drive Revenue so you
need to come up with ideas fast you
don't want to mess about you want to put
stuff to the market and you want to
start seeing what's actually driving
like that leads the inbounds the revenue
what's moving the pipeline across so
it's for me it's it's exactly what I
love talking about because it's fun it's
fast paced you don't have to go through
tons of paperwork you don't have to go
through tons of people in your
organization to make decisions so it's
uh it's good fun right yeah or you know
who that decision maker is right so
you're just like I'm gonna call
whoever it's like hey what about this
can we do this yes
um
you get that feedback from other people
much more quickly
um and and that makes it a little bit
more fun it's not like um
you know like we did this we started
doing this thing where
um just as
it's not I will not pretend that it is
like a good tactic for driving you know
demo requests or anything like that but
you know we do do a lot of trade shows
here at Healthcare in the U.S and so we
started doing
um
you know like Spotify playlists uh for
that City where trade show is gonna
happen so if it's in like Nashville or
New Orleans we have one coming up uh
Chicago things like that yeah uh you
know we started just doing these fun
just like branded playlists is like
another thing we can send to attendees
ahead of the the show
and it's a little bit different right
and and uh but again it's like fun
because it's like well are there like
legal issues with like doing that and so
you know I had to like send an email to
our lawyer
yeah Kaelyn like what's the deal like uh
you know and she got back to me and
she's like well this is a very fun
request to have to like look and do
um you know but it's like you nip that
in the bud like within a day
and you're like okay great now we can do
this we're just gonna have a little bit
of fun on this thing
you know at a larger company it might be
like you know you're going to this
person and that person's going to that
person and it's three weeks later before
you're even dealing with legal uh to get
those answers that you might need so
yeah yeah yeah that makes sense yeah and
and from an honest perspective like
apart from um being able to move a lot
quicker and get things done fast are
there any kind of cons or any negative
angles to having a smaller team
yeah I mean I think just feeling
sometimes like you're
uh
you know like someone's throwing you
over the side of a boat and you're yeah
yeah sink or swim it's like sink or swim
right like when people are like well
what are you responsible for
and I was like well I do content I do
demand I do product marketing I do uh
some op stuff
uh you know it's like you just look at
your white board and it's like sometimes
it can be like a um a struggle to figure
out
what to prioritize on right you're
moving so quickly and it's like I gotta
get this done I gotta get on your the
context switching from going to be like
doing a product marketing thing or
customer interviews
to writing a blog post or you know right
now doing like a tam analysis and you
know
being like Oh my God I don't you know
someone's like oh just do like an Excel
formula for figuring out blah blah blah
and you're like yeah yeah I'm a freaking
writer like I don't know how to do like
Excel for right so like there's just
that context switching and wearing a lot
of different hats sometimes can honestly
be be it's fun but it can also sometimes
be overwhelming where
you're like I really would just love to
have like one or two programs that I am
like focusing on and feeling like I am
like absolutely crushing it versus yeah
sometimes you feel like you're just
constantly just doing a lot of different
things and you're like am I doing these
things well am I just
moving too quickly to get a lot of this
stuff done and out the door
um
so that can oftentimes be a shrug I mean
it's like fun but it can sometimes feel
like a struggle I think a lot of times
um
yeah so no I get that I get and I'm I'm
in a similar place right running a a web
and SEO Agency for small businesses like
that sometimes it feels like there's
tons of tasks but on the benefit of it
when you do do many try many of these
jobs yourself you you learn pretty quick
like necessity is the mother of
invention right so it's
if you're an ambitious marketer I mean I
would say like you absolutely at some
point in your career preferably earlier
it is probably well worth your time to
try to be an early
be on a small team be an early marketing
hire
frankly right now I feel very well
equipped you know if someone is like
okay you know you want to be a CMO you
want to kind of run an entire marketing
team
it's being on a early higher or a solo
team or small team it's like you're
doing budgets you're doing you know this
like you're knowing finding out very
quickly like what you are good and not
good at yeah right so like here access
one when when it was like okay we have
head count for a new hire
and I'm like I am not spending 60 of my
time
going into Salesforce doing like
objects and like redoing account layouts
I'm like I'm not doing that like I I
cannot spend my time
neck deep and Ops and so we need to hire
someone and it's like you wouldn't know
that unless you know when you are the
the only marketer
at Q squared it's like people come to
you and they're like hey this is broken
how do I get this to show up and you're
like trying to figure that out on behalf
of your sales team and the company
because you know that that adds value
so you kind of have to do it but if you
don't do it you're never going to know
that like hey that's not the best use of
your time and be how you add value and
see that there are people out there who
are good at that you might as well just
like hire them and add them to your team
to like have them be those experts yeah
so I do I do think if you are an
ambitious marketer it makes sense for
you because you are exposed to so many
different things that like you should
absolutely
at some point in your career try to be a
solo marketer on a on a small growing
team yeah man I I completely agree like
whether it's a small team new business
startup whatever it just gives you so
much not just business experience but
life experience like if you ever wanted
to do your own side gig or start your
own business it will help you deal with
so much pressure and you'll be way more
prepared for different tasks thrown at
you realizing when you need to Outsource
something realize when you need to do
something in-house delegation like all
these things that just such good life
skills oh my God I mean take it like one
step out further too like for you right
so you've got your company and you're
doing this podcast and you're doing some
marketing stuff as well I imagine
but it helps you right like I'm sure
there's a million other things that
you're doing as the kind of owner of
this business whether it's like HR stuff
uh a hiring whatever that might be but
at least you've done enough marketing
where you know now it's like you're in a
higher marketer
like you know what that is that you need
right like you know because you've done
it what it is that you need to fill that
role and have that person be successful
um
and I think you know it's the same thing
with with marketing there's so many
different facets of it
um and they're also different a product
marketer is very different than a you
know a designer different than a Content
person different than a
whatever that may be so
yeah yeah that's it that's it cool man
so with that in mind
let's get actionable here let's talk
about some of the focuses of marketing
teams and this is this is quite a broad
topic but with so much thrown about in
the B2B marketing world right now James
you've only got a flick on to LinkedIn
or any other B2B Channel whether that's
people talking about on YouTube tiktok
whatever there's so much talk about
creating demand for your company
building brand for your company
capturing existing demand in the market
um
but in your in your opinion what is what
what should be the focus especially when
you're a small marketing team you've got
limited resources probably limited
budget to a certain extent
what are we meant to double down on or
how do we what should be our first
considerations yeah and this is probably
not the answer that's that great because
the answer is it depends right like
I mean for for me and and I'll kind of
draw in my experience when you know when
when I started Q squared which is
um
you know I I started and pipeline was
real healthy relative to
um the revenue goals of of the company
and and so I was able to really kind of
with the founders work on okay you know
do we need to add pipeline is that sort
of the the immediate need where
we need to go out and and really get you
know capture existing demand go out and
get you know pull people in
and honestly it was great having those
early conversations because it's like no
I think we're pretty good like here's
what our pipeline looks like for the
year and if we get excels across the
finish line
so it sort of freed me up to be like
okay great like then what I'm going to
do is make sure that
I'm gonna start the bottom of the funnel
and really enable sales to have the
stuff that they need to like go out and
close whatever deals that they are
currently working on so figuring out and
partnering with them to
figure out the assets and the things
that they need you know we really worked
hard on honing our strategic narrative
and uh sales deck
uh from the start right like making sure
that when people were delivering that
that they were felt super confident that
it was
gonna really shine
um and be impactful
um
but for us too it's like we don't have
to worry about like say positioning
right because we were very much a
payments company in the healthcare
industry right and so we were not
focused on being a payments company in
the
um Services industry we were not a
payments company focused on
going after 10 different Industries we
were very focused on
like we had that position in the product
Market marketing fit almost locked in
before I got there
and so if you're a first marketing hire
or you know an early marketing hire you
really need to kind of figure out what
are those business challenges that need
to be solved from the get-go and that
could be anything from
we are not we don't have any awareness
we don't have product marketing fit we
don't have a good strategic narrative we
don't have good messaging we don't have
good positioning
um where should we be going after and
spending our resources to fight
um
you know are we going to focus on one
industry two industries the buyer
Persona things like that I think it's
really honestly like you got to come in
and be able to wrap your heads around
all of that stuff very quickly
because otherwise you're just gonna be
uh
it can be a little bit overwhelming
right it's like what do you like what do
I focus on it and so for me I think it's
it's
um trying to figure out what those one
or two things
um
that need the most urgent attention yes
and so for me right it's like okay we've
got uh our positioning locked in place
we've got our messaging locked in place
our strategic narrative is good
and once we sort of had those things
what I felt were at a really good place
it freed me up to then kind of say okay
now we have an awareness problem so how
are we going to go solve
how are we gonna go solve for that in a
very cost effective way or how do I use
my budget at hand to to to do that so
all right let's break that down and
we'll go into the next stage in a sec so
um
it sounds to me James correct if I'm
wrong
like the first step is actually
and now it depends of course like you
said whether your company's been going a
little while or whether it's a brand new
startup it's going to be situational
right we can't cover every basis there's
only a 30 40 minute show but with that
said we've done quite a lot on startups
so let's say your company's been
established a little while
um we'll use the scenario like you've
given us and one of the first steps it
sounds like it's talk talking to the
founders talking to the owners directors
of the company and understanding what
the focus like in your case you said do
we need pipeline fast do we need like a
ton of sales leads for our team and in
that case they said they've probably got
enough did you say like the remainder of
the quarter or something yeah well and
and like what I would say is to double
down on that is don't necessarily take
their word for it right so like do do
the work yourself because
you know it's it's funny how quickly it
goes from we're okay to like oh my God
we're not okay you know when we Take
Your Eye Off the Ball
um yeah yeah
but I think like trying to be able to
understand those issues and those lovers
that you need to pull or focus on
um and I think you know it's better to
focus on a few things and do those few
things well
um
and have a plan to communicate you know
why you're gonna focus on you know a
company narrative or you know pushing
ads for growth or whatever it is I think
just
have that plan be able to communicate it
and like you know feel confident in your
decisions to to
um
lead on that expertise right
yeah yeah yeah so what we're saying is
dig deeper let's say we've we've got
enough pipeline for the remaining
quarter make sure they actually have
like ask for some data around that ask
for some stats say like okay what
opportunities are there right now
um so you can really get a good feel for
exactly what's happening
yeah yeah okay and then in your case so
that the company already had product
Market fit they already had a they had
the ideal client profile mapped out it
sounds like they've got a specific Niche
that they're targeting so not trying to
work out like which Industries which job
titles are we honing in on we've already
got that established
um
so for that reason
you thought it was more of like a brand
awareness play that was needed was that
right or
yeah I mean again like I think
for our purposes
you know we did have a very good product
Market fit I think we had a very good
customer base
and so it made it easy for me to say
okay well I'm going to use all those
targeting layers to to just start
driving
awareness and part of it is okay I you
know I'm not like a paid media I mean
the difference between say me doing paid
media and someone who actually knows
what they're doing with paid media like
I know enough to be dangerous
but I felt like you know I could easily
do run some ads and some tests and start
leveraging
um
you know some paid campaigns on LinkedIn
to like grow our awareness
um and and dedicate some budget to that
yeah
um
and really at that point too by the time
I was doing paid you know I had gotta
worked on my content program
you know started to pull some of those
levers
um
and was able to use that content in our
paid and things like that so
um yeah I mean again if you're trying to
drive awareness for your company
um you know you got to step back and say
how we're going to do this do I have you
know two three grand a month to spend on
ads if I don't have money on spend some
ads
um do I need to do some other initiative
or tactic to try to drive that awareness
um yeah
I think you know like a good example of
you know if you don't have paid
um I come back to so you know like
Melissa Moody the Gated team have you
ever kind of run up against them at all
okay is that the emo program that
prevents certain emails coming in yeah
or like they've got like you've got to
pay to get access or donate to a charity
or something like that okay but I
remember very clearly like there was
this one moment where it's like I really
had no idea who they were and then one
day it was like everyone on LinkedIn was
talking about using gated
and it was a very
um
when I actually talked to Melissa
afterwards it was like she had put
together this like very comprehensive
like LinkedIn influencer like program
where she got a whole bunch of like
you know really popular like LinkedIn
marketers and go to market people to use
gated and then on a certain day everyone
was talking about it with the same
messaging and the thing like that
and it was like oh man this is
incredible I remember that actually I
remember that day yeah and it was just
like oh my God like I can't go anywhere
on LinkedIn without talking about gated
and so I think that there are things you
can do where it's it's like you don't
necessarily have to like spend money to
to drive awareness but if you know where
your audience or who you want your
audience to be and where they're hanging
out I mean I think that there are ways
where you can Leverage
things like a LinkedIn influencer
campaign to to drive awareness to your
company or you know being on Reddit or
core or different like places where you
know you can Leverage
um certain audiences and communities to
to you know drive low cost say this I
did something similar when I released um
I've written two books right one was a
LinkedIn guide years ago and then the
more recent one was the no BS guide to
website lead gen yeah so what I did is
because we've had so many guests on this
podcast I literally sent a tailored
email to like
two or three hundred I was up until like
midnight emailing everyone like a few
days before and I said like if you get a
sec do you mind um just doing a quick
post on LinkedIn here's the image here's
even like a line of text you can put
um and if you get a chance to put a link
in the comments and like in return like
I'm happy to have you back on the show
and I'll give you a free copy of the
guide to try and try to sweeten up the
deal like let's say like a third of them
did it and then we got a few grand in
like the book sales just because just
because I did that so it worked out like
a yeah it took me a couple hours but in
return it gave me a load of uh sign ups
for my email form gave me a load of book
downloads and like the return was like
plentiful really just for a few hours
Sweat Equity really I mean and I feel
like I mean that's that's incredible
right because I feel like sometimes
that's like what marketing is on a
budget where you know if you're building
especially if like you have a podcast or
you're building relationships with
people at some point if you're not
asking really anything of them at some
point you can definitely pull that level
lever of
you know I'm giving 80 and then at some
point you know I'll make an ask or two
and you know hopefully those people will
pay me dividends in return but
almost inevitably you know if you were
to reach out to me in six months to be
like hey James can you do X for me uh
because of this experience
I would say absolutely like happy to
help any way I can
um and so I think like when you give
give give eventually when you ask people
are more receptive to do that you can
absolutely leverage that
um
in your marketing right I mean I think
like eventually that's I'm hoping to do
that you know we have a podcast with
with access one and and you know it's
right now it's just good conversations
and it's a big part of our content
strategy right to have
um it's you know frankly it's I don't
want to say it's played out in the
marketing space but like in the mark
Tech World there are a lot of podcasts
and things like that yeah I mean in
healthcare there's hardly any and so it
becomes a huge differentiator for us
um
we're doing these interviews and things
like that but along the way you're
building those relationships with people
where
eventually it's like hey can you do this
for us or we're going to have an event
do you want to speak and be a part of it
um and and so once you start making
those asks and leveraging those
relationships it doesn't feel
necessarily
like
it doesn't feel wrong or feel like you
know it just feels like good like it's
just part of like helping other people
out so I mean that's awesome that you
were able to do that for for your book
sale and things like that but that's a
perfect example of
there are ways to do low-cost awareness
campaigns that don't necessarily rely
just on paid spend yeah yeah yes I mean
you raised a good example and like you
say I think it's also
tapping into those things isn't it
because if you're a small marketing team
like we said you're probably not going
to have them the biggest budget in the
world so you've got to really get
Scrappy and think about once you've
established your goals with leadership
and the rest of your team like okay what
what are we going to put the budget we
have got in elsewhere where are we going
to invest our time in our resources
aside from that budget that might be
going into XYZ Channel LinkedIn ads
whatever
how else can we leverage our Network our
existing contacts our existing customers
what other tools and do we have in our
shed that we can put into play whether
it is starting a podcast and building
that out in a house like so whether that
is starting some kind of useful guide
for your industry whether that's
something else your own webinar thinking
about all those resources that you've
got available to you and the amount of
time that you can dedicate to them to
then create something that's going to be
of value to your audience and like you
said build relationships over time with
those focused clients
yeah I mean it's it's so key I think
um
because I think that one of the hard
things is like when you're asking stuff
of your customers it's like
your product team is asking them for
feedback and your customer success team
might be asking them for stuff or yeah
you know depending on the size of your
company things like that it's like
asking hey for your customers to hey we
want to use you in our marketing or we
want you to be in a webinar it it can be
hard sometimes to to sort of be that
additional ask when
so much is being asked of them already
but if you're just sort of genuinely
genuinely building relationships with
them like
you know when you make an ask I think
like when you've built that relationship
it feels like oh no I want to do a favor
for James because I like him or I want
to do a thing for Sam because he's been
really nice to me
and so it doesn't sound like me what's
that that doesn't sound like me no me
either yeah for sure
but but do you know what I mean where if
you're building that relationship and
and that is you know in some ways a hard
but I do think like marketing if done
well is You're Building relationships at
scale in some ways and so I think if you
do it well
and what I've always sort of said is
like if marketing does their job well
they're essentially like the non-sales
sales sales team right it's it's your
you're selling you you're making people
like your company
um
but you're doing it in a way where
you're reaching a whole lot of people
right you're sending useful emails and
and things like that and and
and again hopefully when when those
people are ready to buy you know they're
already engaged with your company
um and so it makes it a little bit
easier uh for sales to to slide in and
really kind of accelerate that process
but um
yeah yeah I love that I love building
relationships at scale that's a that's a
great quote and I think
in my opinion anyway a big part of that
that's neglected by marketers is
actually communicating with their sales
team regularly and communicating with uh
customers themselves
um just so you can actually make sure
that the content the media the messaging
that you're putting out
is going to resonate with your target
buyer because you're talking about the
problems they care about or their goals
that they care about their Ambitions
what they actually care about rather
than just guessing or doing what your
CEO tells you
I mean yeah no I would 100 agree with
that and I think like it's an ongoing
thing right like I think
sometimes like a lot of marketers
they're good at
you know
making that effort initially
um
I'm victim of this too but but I think
like it has to be an ongoing process
where
you know you're you're regularly
communicating with your your target
buyer whether that's customers or
prospects and
you know that could be like listening to
gangles or whatever like I totally get
that there are other ways around it but
if you don't have those
um resources then you've got to partner
with whoever has access to your
customers or or prospects whether that's
sales or
um
whoever because I think it needs to be
sort of part of just your ongoing
process as a marketer because
that messaging might change the the
problems they're having might change
things you know they don't know they
move quickly in some ways but in some
ways they don't but you know you need to
be kind of out ahead of it and getting
that sort of ongoing feedback over time
because
you know you don't want to be in a place
where
it's like oh our messaging is no longer
resonating because by then it's it's
probably too late you know it's like you
want to be out ahead of it
um
and be sort of helping to sort of lead
the market along versus you know being
reactive
sure for sure yeah I mean that's there's
nothing more important right than what
you're putting out as a marketer to
actually resonate with your ideal buyer
because if it doesn't then your toast
you're wasting money uh you're wasting
resources
when I and I think like too like it it
can be a challenge because I think like
sometimes you you can put stuff out
where you're like oh man this is this
totally resonates and we had this issue
a little bit where
we just got back from a a trade show and
it was like you're walking around the
trade show floor
and you're like oh like our messaging
I think it resonates but also it sounds
a lot like everybody else's right right
it's like you're a lot of the companies
and especially the companies in our
space
are all sort of saying similar
variations of of the same thing
and so then it's like well now how do we
maybe tweak that or how do we sort of
address that where
it's we want to address their the
customers pains and things like that but
we want to say it in a way that is
different from the way that other other
people are saying it
um
and so that was a little bit eye-opening
for me too where you think it's good you
think you're kind of saying the right
things but then it's it's
that's also like well but then like
everybody else is saying the same thing
and so maybe our messaging is not as
tight as it kind of needs to be what did
you do in that scenario
we haven't done anything yet because
this literally just happened like okay
Now's the Time to shift so it's like
very fresh in my mind right because we
just had this trade show and it was
maybe two weeks ago gotcha and it's like
well shoot so it's like this is like
kind of my one big big to do now is to
sort of look at that messaging and and
um
maybe see how we can tweak it a little
bit
um
because it was very eye-opening it was
like oh
like our brand refresh looks good you
know some of our messaging is good but
it's also not dissimilar from a lot of
the other uh
companies in the market so yeah yeah
well look I appreciate you being candid
and sharing that with us because money
wouldn't
um so yeah let's get you on a few months
and see what happens uh yeah with that
said we've gone Mastery off track but
I'm very glad we did because we shared
some nice kind of ideas on what you can
do when it comes to getting Scrappy
getting resourceful and not necessarily
needing a budget to make marketing ideas
happen bring things to Market
um what I do want to get back to though
is we talked about kind of understanding
what perhaps the owners the founders the
leadership in your company
um care about what's going on right now
and what angles that you should look at
as a small marketing team
but
how do we get them on site when we're
doing things like we say okay pipeline's
okay for the next quarter so I'm going
to look at ramping up our brand
positioning I'm going to build some
demand in the market how do we actually
get buy-in because if you're a marketer
and you understand all that stuff
absolutely fine yep go ahead whereas if
you're perhaps a Founder that kind of
really just cares about yeah let's bring
on board new new logos new client
accounts how do we kind of get that
buy-in and how do we say well we need X
grand for a LinkedIn ad campaign that's
going to do that and maybe we need a bit
of cash to set up a podcast and maybe a
bit of cash for some content so we can
start writing some blogs and ramp up our
SEO
yeah I mean I think
as a marketer you have to just rely on
the fact that
you know look part of part of your job
is always going to be managing up right
and and getting buy-in for
um whatever the the program you want to
do so I think just for me it came down
to just being able to very clearly
articulate you know I want to do X
that I'm gonna spend x amount
um
you know it helped that for me I kind of
knew what my budget was I knew sort of
what my monthly spend could be and so I
was very judicious about
you know it's I think it can be tempting
to come in and and say we gotta redo the
website and spend x amount to do that
and not that you shouldn't right I you
know if we were still Q squared and
independent I probably would have done a
big website redo like this year
but I think if you know like hey I've
got five grand to spend a month and I'm
spending 800 on HubSpot or whatever it
is and x amount and I've got this pool
left over
I think that it kind of becomes a little
bit easier to say look I want to spend
you know this portion we need to do
um
content and S like for me right like it
was very easy like look we are invisible
to Google right
and the only way we're going to like not
be invisible to Google is if we do like
you know these five things and so I
think it became very easy to say like
here's the problem and this is the
problem because when people are
searching for what our company does
they're not going to find us and we want
them to find us and so
that in order for them to find us we
need to do you know we could spend on
PPC or we could start to build
organically
um and and stuff and and so I was like
and here's I want to do spend
organically and build a program for the
Long Haul
and so I think for me it was just sort
of presenting that case right like
putting a little PowerPoint together you
know saying here's what we're doing
here's the problem we're solving here's
how we're going to measure it so that
over time you know we know if we're
making progress and doing the right
things
and then you know when we do a good job
solving for this problem and we've hit
these metrics you know here's sort of
that next phase and so for me I think
it's really just kind of having that
like short medium and long-term approach
to solving that problem
and and having a plan for how you're
going to measure it at each phase
um so that when you go to the CEO and
you're presenting back to them you can
show either progresses you know hey
we're doing great we're not doing great
you know why are we not doing great
yeah and so I think it's really just
having that
um making that case as simple or as
complicated as you want to and for me I
just I tend to keep it simple
you know here's what I want to do here's
how much it's going to cost here are the
results I want to drive towards and
um and I think I can do it for this
amount and if it's within the budget
that you've allocated and so I think at
that point you're kind of making like
the no burning case for them to just say
okay like I trust you like let's sign
off on it
um
is that sort of how I approach it I
willing to admit that maybe that's not
the answer for for everyone but
um
I think especially if you're a small
team and you have
you know I always said to the CEO too
like you know he would say look I hired
you because you're a marketer and I
trust you
um
you know and so it made it easy that
they bought into marketing but they also
know
they hired me for my expertise and so
you know you have to make that case to
show like what that is like why they
hired you and bring that expertise to
the front
and charges be able to make that case
um so that's kind of what I did just
kept it kind of simple I think that's a
really nice way of putting it together
like saying look in your case like SEO
is like a perfect example right the
problem is we're not being found on
organic search when our prospects are
searching for the service or offering we
do so our competitors are stealing our
business let's get some market share
back
um yeah
and and that's the thing right it's like
yeah you want that visibility and and I
think like again with like SEO you can
make it as complicated or as simple as
you want right like at some point it's
like
we have keywords and are those keywords
converting and are we doing this and
where are they going to and are we
optimizing for X Y and Z right I mean I
think
there are people who are better experts
at SEO than than certainly myself but I
think
um
you know the way in which your company
gets found I think Google is still a
pretty big part of that right like
people still use Google for search it's
not going away anytime soon and you want
to be
as visible and and as omnipresent on
Google as you possibly can be as a
company
yeah yeah of course I mean my uh what
the audience of this show know that that
you're literally preaching to the Quirk
is pretty much all my solo episodes are
on SEO and website and conversions so
yeah they're probably sick to the back
teeth of that but yeah you're certainly
speaking to the converters there
so yeah with that in mind we've given
some some decent examples so we
basically to to recap we're saying like
speak to leadership understand what's
working well what's not look for the
gaps then explain what you're going to
Target how you're going to do it bring
up the problem
break it into how you're going to
measure success maybe there's certain
signals you're going to look out for and
then break it up into phases so you can
easily get by in budget and resources
um so I like that approach
in terms of kind of prioritizing time do
you have like
a framework of how you prioritize your
your own James or your team's time in
terms of like for this month we can
dedicate or like a day I don't know
whether it's done on daily whether it's
done weekly whether it's done monthly in
terms of actually what you physically
put your time into is it driven on
Revenue driven activities team driven
but is there like a framework you follow
yeah I mean for me I think just because
I'm kind of wearing a lot of hats right
now it's I I do find I don't have like a
percentage or I'm going to dedicate X
percent to to whatever yeah but I think
for me it's it's like looking at okay
what are the things that I need you know
kind of typically on like a Sunday I'll
sort of like look at my week ahead and
it's like okay what are the three things
or four things five things whatever that
I need to
accomplished to have this week be a
success
and then honestly I typically will just
like time box my week out right so it's
like
um go into my calendar and okay on
Monday from 8 A.M to 10 I'm going to
dedicate that to writing this blog post
or doing you know uh these social Clips
um
from this recent interview or whatever
whatever the thing is and so just
putting that time in the calendar I mean
for me I typically work better
with like dedicated Focus work in the
mornings so I try to time box my my
mornings out you know Monday through
Friday and keep any
um meetings and things like that into
the afternoon where it's you know
afternoons are kind of like meetings and
you know meetings and decisions right so
it's it's more of that sort of
administrative side of the work that I
need to do like answering emails and
following up and things like that
just because I know usually by the
afternoon it's like I've gotten my
focused work done then usually mentally
it's like all I can handle is responding
to emails and and certain things like
that
um and so I think for for anyone you
just have to figure out like how it is
that your brain works and like you just
like make your schedule work for you and
for me it's like
protecting your calendar making sure
that you're not in nine million meetings
a month you know a week a day whatever
it is like giving yourself that time to
do that sort of heads down focused work
whether it's
okay this is I'm doing my reporting for
the week or I'm doing my you know
building my lists for whatever campaign
or you know I'm setting up my ad
campaigns you know and just chunking it
off and
dedicating that time in the calendar so
I for me I find that like time boxing is
has been the one thing that has worked
really well in terms of
prioritizing my own time and being able
to dedicate to getting all the all the
things done yeah and then I think the
other thing is just like knowing you
have good teammates right so trusting
that they're going to kind of work
you know they're handling the stuff that
they need to do and you know however
that works for them and um just checking
in regularly to make sure that they're
kind of doing that stuff you know doing
things that they need to do but
um I try not to to micromanage like
anyone that that I hire it's like I
think if you hire good people you should
be able to trust them to to handle their
business and and uh
I think right like just setting that
expectations like look I want you to
like manage up like you keep me posted
on how things are going and raise any
flags and let me clear any roadblocks
that you need to clear but otherwise
like I hired you to do this because
you're really good at it so like go do
it and like keep you posted
um yeah so yeah yeah yeah yeah I'm much
the same in terms of time blocking like
it's it's so beneficial especially to
know if you work best in the morning or
afternoon or evenings whatever because
I'm pretty much the same as you like the
morning I can get a fair bit done I
noticed as soon as well after lunch time
or if I go to the gym whatever at lunch
time then I'm just two three o'clock I'm
not gonna get a great deal done so it's
better off I focus on kind of I don't
know admin work or management work all
that kind of stuff and focus on like the
revenue driving activities in the
morning because I can be wide awake on
it alert um but yeah knowing that and
then blocking out the calendar is is
Sound Advice because like you say you
can make sure it gets done and not
chucking a load of meetings that might
not be needed till the later in the week
or later in the day
yeah it's and it's it's like for me I
mean those days that feel successful are
the ones where
you know where that's happened the ones
that don't feel successful where it's
like
I was just in meetings for eight hours a
day you're like what did I do today and
it's like when you don't protect your
time you know you could feel it at the
end of the day where it's like
you didn't get that like one or two
things that you really needed to get
done and it's it's tough when it just
kind of like rolls over into the next
week and you're just like man I I did
not do a good job
um
of giving myself the the time because
it's tough It's like when you're doing a
podcast or you're cutting up content or
you're doing whatever it is
like sometimes like that stuff takes
time it's like and you need to give
yourself the two or three hours or
whatever it is to to be able to to do
that
um
because it's not something you can do in
20-minute Sports in between all the
other things you're you're doing
throughout the course of the day yeah
yeah and like you say I'm recognizing
when something when you've done it
yourself you might realize oh this isn't
actually the best use of my time I'm
going to ask if a colleague can do it or
even Outsource it
um because it's something I can just
mark down make a video recording of and
get get an admin or a V8 to help me with
so yeah all those all those nice tips um
before we wrap things up James this has
been an enjoyable conversation it's gone
a different direction which I'm happy
about are there any other we got into a
few kind of free Scrappy resourceful
ways that marketing teams can
kind of basically drive drive more
awareness drive more Revenue more
pipeline any others that we haven't
talked about any more unusual approaches
that come to mind you might have I don't
think so I mean like to be honest the
one thing that I love about
always like being in like healthcare for
the US in some ways it's like
it you know I can kind of look and take
stuff that other people are in like
marketing go you know
um like LinkedIn marketing
and it's nice feeling like I can steal
from other places and like apply it to
health care so I don't necessarily have
any
um
kind of wild outside the box ideas that
would be you know new or groundbreaking
or revolutionary by any student
imagination
um
but I think like again like my
background as a journal is like I'm just
a big believer in you know sort of that
ongoing flywheel of when you're doing
content all the time and like involving
your audience in that content
development whether it's interviews for
stories or blogs or podcasts interviews
or whatever yep I was like that is to me
it's not revolutionary but it is one of
those things where if you dedicate your
time to doing it like you'll start to
those results will compound over time
yeah and you know if you are creative
about in the ways in which you use that
content
um and enable sort of that
permissionless co-marketing where you're
enabling those people to hey I was on
this podcast like you set those gifts up
for success
they're in turn gonna like promote their
appearance or or their sort of
participation in that content
and that's gonna like tap into their
Network and I think that those sort of
um little wins over time compound
um
to what sometimes feels like overnight
success but yeah yeah I think it's just
uh sort of building those flywheels and
uh and doing what you can um so it's
nothing revolutionary but
um I am just a big believer in sort of
that audience building and providing you
know useful content
um over time and seeing those gains
compound from them so
yeah I mean the basics are the ones that
work because like you said the beauty of
creating content flywheel is the content
that you put out if you're creating what
we call owned assets like if you're
starting a podcast doing a video series
webinar series writing your own blog
articles and you're making sure they're
actually genuinely useful generally
answering questions that your Target
customers have or handling problems or
handling frustrations that are brought
up in sales schools and the content is
generally like you've gone out of your
way to make it useful for them then if
you're putting that on places that are
evergreen I.E your own website blog
articles YouTube podcast channels
they're not just a one and done they're
going to stay there for Lifetime now so
they can be they're searchable whether
that's on Google YouTube so they they
can be they can ramp up in a search
engine they can be found so they can
provide lifetime value for your company
through search engines through
attracting people to your site to
building your brand driving inbound
um on a funny note like our podcast we
get like the odd inquiry every now and
then because someone will listen to it
then might approach me for consulting or
webwork or SEO work but this week alone
we've had a consult request a day purely
from the podcast which is and it went
from this like static line of like up
and down inquiries to just a Snowball
Effect yeah it literally shows you that
doing these things consistently and kind
of going at your way to actually make
sure your audience you're being on a
general resource and understanding what
they want to learn about will um yeah
build up over time
yeah it's amazing that's amazing and
like that'll pay dividends for you and
your company
I mean into this year you know I think
like that's the other thing is just like
being able to use that content
um and making sure it's it's Evergreen
and you know I'm always amazed that
companies don't
do a good enough job
like using older content and still using
it
um
because it's like if the content is good
six months from now it'll still be good
eight months from now it'll still be
good and so you should definitely kind
of keep using it in you know email
social whatever that ends up being
um
and so don't don't sleep on you know
updating and using old content it
doesn't always have to be net new so
that that's kind of the big
um
big thing as well big believer in making
sure that you don't uh don't forget
about you know maximizing your older
content that you've already made yeah
that's a nice Point yeah yeah
repurposing for sure great great ad
James with that sir it's been a great
conversation thank you very much for for
coming on and sharing your wisdom of
smooth marketing teams with myself in
the audience I don't know how wisdom
wisdomy it is but uh thanks for having
me on I appreciate it this is uh fun no
worries man so with that said please do
tell everyone more about how they can
learn from you how they can connect with
you and the best way to get in touch
yeah I mean best way always is LinkedIn
so you can find me
um James
furbush's uh BP marketing and access one
uh so definitely LinkedIn
uh I'm probably in every
um slack marketing community so probably
be found there and most of the big ones
and then
um you know definitely check out
accessonepay.com which is our company
website we just uh rolled out our new
website
um and so if you want to learn more
about but what we do as a company you
can definitely check us out there
um so yeah
Legend we'll put all of those links over
in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing with that
thanks once again James awesome Sam
thanks for having me appreciate it this
is fun no worries man and as always if
you enjoyed today's episode be sure to
leave a quick rating or review on your
podcast Channel or if you're on YouTube
a subscribe goes a very long way and
we'll catch you on the next one for more
actionable no BS B2B marketing tips grow
your business and grow Revenue cheers
for tuning in